feat(tutorial): add new mnq tutorial (#3413)
scaleway/docs-content: tutorials/nats-rdb-offload/index.mdx

    ```
    nats context info scaleway  
    ```
The output should mention "OK" for the credentials path, and confirm that your NATS server is ready.
If not, go back to the NATS CLI documentation to properly create a Scaleway context.

## Install dependencies

1. Open a new terminal window from your project directory.
2. Install the following dependencies for the tutorial:
    ```
    sudo apt-get install mysql-server
    pip install mysql-connector-python 
    pip install pynacl
    pip install nkeys
    pip install nats-python
    ```

## Connect to your Scaleway Managed Database

1. Open a new terminal window.
2. Log in to the Scaleway console and access your Project.
3. Click **PostgreSQL and MySQL** in the console side menu.
4. Click the relevant database, and go to its **Overview** tab.
5. Copy the snippet under **Connection**, in the Network block.
6. Paste the snippet into the terminal window and update it with your created username.
7. Follow the instructions in the terminal to validate your password.
    You should now have access to the `mysql` environment.

> 9. Create the database and table with the following code: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8. Create the database and table with the following code: 
```

    ```
    CREATE DATABASE nats_messages;
    USE nats_messages;
    CREATE TABLE messages (
        id INT AUTO_INCREMENT PRIMARY KEY,
        subject VARCHAR(255),
        data TEXT,
        received_at TIMESTAMP DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP
    );
    ```

## Create the publisher

We start by creating the publisher application.

> 1. Create a new file in your project directory named `nats_publisher.py`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a new file in your project directory named `nats_publisher.py`.
```

2. Paste the following Python code into the file:

    ```
    import asyncio
    from nats.aio.client import Client as NATS

    async def run_publisher():
        # Connect to the NATS server
        nc = NATS()

        await nc.connect("NATS ACCOUNT URL", user_credentials="NATS CREDENTIALS PATH")

        # Publish a message to the subject
        await nc.publish("foo", b'Hello, World!')

        # Flush to ensure messages are processed
        await nc.flush()

        # Close the connection
        await nc.close()

    if __name__ == '__main__':
        asyncio.run(run_publisher())
    ```
  
Do not forget to replace `NATS ACCOUNT URL` and `NATS CREDENTIALS PATH` with your own NATS account details.

> This small Python application will publish a "Hello World!" message under the "foo" subject

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This small Python application will publish a "Hello World!" message under the "foo" subject.
```

## Create the subscriber

Next we create the subscriber application.

> 1. Create a new file in your project directory named `nats_subscriber_with_mysql.py`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a new file in your project directory named `nats_subscriber_with_mysql.py`.
```

            conn.commit()
            cursor.close()
            conn.close()

        # Subscribe to a subject
        await nc.subscribe("foo", cb=message_handler)

        # Keep the subscriber running to receive messages
        while True:
            await asyncio.sleep(1)

    if __name__ == '__main__':
        asyncio.run(run_subscriber())
    ```

    Do not forget to replace the subscriber code with the correct configuration details for your Scaleway Managed Database information, and `NATS ACCOUNT URL` and `NATS CREDENTIALS PATH` with your own NATS account details.
   
    You will note that they are the same as the publisher's. This is normal as both applications are communicating through the same NATS server.

## Put it all in motion

Your architecture is now ready: 
- A NATS server to handle the pub/sub messaging pattern
- A publisher application that will send a message through the NATS server
- A subscriber application that will retrieve the message from the NATS server and write it to the mySQL database
- A database that can be read by the rest of your architecture's clients

To see the flow running, you can follow these steps:

> 1. Open your terminal window dedicated to the subscriber and run the Python file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Open your terminal window dedicated to the subscriber and run the Python file:
```

    ```
    python nats_subscriber_with_mysql.py
    ```

> 2. Open your terminal window dedicated to the publisher and run the python file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Open your terminal window dedicated to the publisher and run the python file:
```

    ```
    python nats_publisher.py
    ```
3. Go back to your terminal window of the subscriber. You can see that the message has been received by the application and sent to the database.

> 4. Go back to your database terminal window (the one with >sql) and run the following code

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Go back to your database terminal window (the one with >sql) and run the following code:
```

    ```
    USE nats_messages
    SELECT * FROM messages;
    ```

>     You should see your message in the table with the timestamp

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    You should see your message in the table with the timestamp.
```

---
meta:

>   title: Leverage on NATS Messaging Pub/Sub capabilities to offload your Managed Database.

Author: ```suggestion
  title: Leverage NATS Messaging and Queuing pub/sub capabilities to offload your Managed Database
```

>   description: Learn how to construct a pub/sub architecture that can help you manage the load coming to your database. Dive into this Python tutorial for step-by-step guidance on asynchronous data processing.

Author: ```suggestion
  description: Learn how to construct a pub/sub architecture to help you manage database load. Dive into this Python tutorial for step-by-step guidance on asynchronous data processing.
```

content:

>   h1: Leverage on NATS Messaging Pub/Sub capabilities to offload your Managed Database.

Author: ```suggestion
  h1: Leverage NATS Messaging and Queuing pub/sub capabilities to offload your Managed Database
```

>   paragraph: Learn how to construct a pub/sub architecture that can help you manage the load coming to your database. Dive into this Python tutorial for step-by-step guidance on asynchronous data processing.

Author: ```suggestion
  paragraph: Learn how to construct a pub/sub architecture to help you manage database load. Dive into this Python tutorial for step-by-step guidance on asynchronous data processing.
```

categories:
  - functions
  - messaging
  - postgresql-and-mysql
tags: terraform scraping-architecture
dates:
  validation: 
  posted: 
---

## Introduction

In this tutorial, we show how to set up a system that receives a message from a publisher and sends it to a managed database through a buffer subscriber. To do so, we  use Scaleway serverless products and deploy two applications:
 - A publisher application, that sends a message to a NATS stream created with Scaleway Messaging and Queuing.
 - A subscriber application, that consumes messages published to the stream and then writes the data into a Scaleway Managed Database.

> <Lightbox src="scaleway-scraping-architecture.webp" alt="" />

Author: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 2: <img width="1502" alt="DB_offload_usecase" src="https://github.com/scaleway/docs-content/assets/133798561/4020313a-d22b-4c99-896d-fc67a0feeb1e">

A scheme of the architecture

> We show how to provision all the required Scaleway resources using code examples and Scaleway Console [console](https://console.scaleway.com/). The code for the functions is written in Python.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We show how to provision all the required Scaleway resources using code examples and the Scaleway [console](https://console.scaleway.com/). The code for the functions is written in Python.
```

This project exemplifies a decoupled architecture, where producer and consumer perform specific tasks independently. This kind of design is modular and allows for flexibility and scalability. It also adheres to the principles of microservices and serverless architectures, where individual functions or scripts focus on specific tasks.

> To properly follow this tutorial, we recommend you to create a dedicated project in your Scaleway account.

Author: ```suggestion
To properly follow this tutorial, we recommend you [create a dedicated Project](/identity-and-access-management/organizations-and-projects/how-to/create-a-project/) in your Scaleway account.
```

> You can name it "RDB and NATS Tutorial". It will hold all your Scaleway ressources created for this tutorial, they will be easier to find.

Author: ```suggestion
You can name it "RDB and NATS Tutorial". It will hold all your Scaleway resources created for this tutorial, so they will be easier to find.
```

<Macro id="requirements" />

- A Scaleway account logged into the [console](https://console.scaleway.com)
- [Owner](/identity-and-access-management/iam/concepts/#owner) status or [IAM permissions](/identity-and-access-management/iam/concepts/#permission) allowing you to perform actions in the intended Organization

> - Installed [NATS CLI](https://github.com/nats-io/natscli) on your local machine

Author: ```suggestion
- Installed the [NATS CLI](https://github.com/nats-io/natscli) on your local machine
```

> - Generated NATS Credentials (and save them under your project directory)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Generated NATS Credentials (and saved them under your project directory)
```

> - Generated NATS Credentials (and save them under your project directory)

Author: ```suggestion
- [Created a Messaging and Queuing NATS account]/serverless/messaging/how-to/get-started/#how-to-create-a-nats-account)
- Generated NATS Credentials (and save them under your project directory)
```

> - Created RDB (https://www.scaleway.com/en/docs/managed-databases/postgresql-and-mysql/quickstart/) with mySQL

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Created RDB (/managed-databases/postgresql-and-mysql/quickstart/) with mySQL
```

> ## Create a NATS server

Reviewer 2: ## Create a NATS stream

> You can refer to the following documentation (https://www.scaleway.com/en/docs/serverless/messaging/api-cli/nats-cli/) to create your NATS stream.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can refer to the following documentation (/serverless/messaging/api-cli/nats-cli/) to create your NATS stream.
```

> For the stream specifications, we recommend you to be as minimalist as possible. 

Author: ```suggestion
We recommend keeping stream specifications as simple as possible. 
```

There is no need for replication or specific parameters for this tutorial.

> Once you followed the abovementionned documentation, follow the next steps to set up your nats broker

Author: ```suggestion
Once you have created your NATS scream by following the documentation linked above, follow the next steps to set up your NATS broker.
```

Reviewer 2: NATS "stream"

Reviewer 2: Rm ", follow the next steps to set up your NATS broker"

> 1. Open a Terminal window 

Author: ```suggestion
1. Open a Terminal on your local machine. 
```

Reviewer 2: From line 49 to line 56, it can be removed

2. Go to your directory for the project
3. Run your NATS server by using the following code 
    ```
    nats-server

    ```
You now have your NATS server up and running.

> To be sure we did not forgot anything for the Scaleway context, paste the following code in a new window of your terminal

Author: ```suggestion
To be sure we did not forgot anything for the Scaleway [context](/serverless/messaging/api-cli/nats-cli/#define-a-context), paste the following code in a new window of your terminal
```

    ```
    nats context info scaleway  
    ```

> You should see "OK" mentionned for the credentials path and that your NATS server is ready!

Author: ```suggestion
The output should mention "OK" for the credentials path, and confirm that your NATS server is ready.
```

> If not go back to the NATS CLI documentation to create properly a Scaleway context.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If not, go back to the NATS CLI documentation to create properly a Scaleway context.
```

<add screenshot of NATS information>

## Install the dependencies

> 1. Open a new Terminal window from your project directory

Author: ```suggestion
1. Open a new terminal window from your project directory
```

2. Install the following dependencies for the tutorial
    ```
    sudo apt-get install mysql-server
    pip install mysql-connector-python 
    pip install pynacl

>     pip install nkeys

Reviewer 2: ADD "pip install nats-python"

    ```

> ## Connect to your Scalesway RDB

Author: ```suggestion
## Connect to your Scalesway Managed Database
```

> 1. Open a new Terminal window

Author: ```suggestion
1. Open a new terminal window
```

> 2. Go to Scaleway Console and into your project

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Log in to the Scaleway console and access your Project
```

> 3. Go to your mySQL database 

Author: ```suggestion
3. Click **PostgreSQL and MySQL** in the console side menu.
```

> 4. Go to Overview

Author: ```suggestion
4. Click the relevant database, and go to its **Overview** tab.
```

> 5. Use the snippet under Connection into the Network bloc so you can connect

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Use the snippet under Connection into the Network block so you can connect
```

> 6. Copy the snippet into the Terminal window and update it with your created username

Author: ```suggestion
6. Paste the snippet into the terminal window and update it with your created username
```

7. Follow the instructions in the terminal to validate your password

> 8. You should have an access to mysql environment 

Author: ```suggestion
    You should have access to the mysql environment 
```

> 9. Create the database and table with the following code

Author: ```suggestion
9. Create the database and table with the following code
```

>  ```

Author: All of this code blocks must be intended two levels

CREATE DATABASE nats_messages;
USE nats_messages;
CREATE TABLE messages (
    id INT AUTO_INCREMENT PRIMARY KEY,
    subject VARCHAR(255),
    data TEXT,
    received_at TIMESTAMP DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP
);
 ```

<add screenshot of sql terminal>

## Create the publisher

We start by creating the publisher application.

> 1. Create a new file in your project directory named nats_publisher.py

Author: ```suggestion
1. Create a new file in your project directory named `nats_publisher.py`
```

> 2. Paste the following Python code in the file

Author: ```suggestion
2. Paste the following Python code into the file:
```

    ```

> import asyncio

Author: All this needs to be indented two levels

from nats.aio.client import Client as NATS

async def run_publisher():
    # Connect to the NATS server
    nc = NATS()

    await nc.connect("NATS ACCOUNT URL", user_credentials="NATS CREDENTIALS PATH")

    # Publish a message to the subject
    await nc.publish("foo", b'Hello, World!')

    # Flush to ensure messages are processed
    await nc.flush()

    # Close the connection
    await nc.close()

if __name__ == '__main__':
    asyncio.run(run_publisher())
    ```

> 3. Update the code with your NATS information

Author: ```suggestion
    Do not forget to replace `NATS ACCOUNT URL` and `NATS CREDENTIALS PATH` with your own NATS account details.
```

This small Python application will publish a "Hello World!" message under the "foo" subject

## Create the subscriber

> We start by creating the subscriber application.

Author: ```suggestion
Next we create the subscriber application.
```

> 1. Create a new file in your project directory named nats_subscriber_with_mysql.py

Author: ```suggestion
1. Create a new file in your project directory named `nats_subscriber_with_mysql.py`
```

> 2. Paste the following Python code in the file

Author: ```suggestion
2. Paste the following Python code into the file:
```

    ```

> import asyncio

Author: Indent two levels

import mysql.connector
from nats.aio.client import Client as NATS

async def run_subscriber():
    # Connect to the NATS server
    nc = NATS()

    await nc.connect("NATS ACCOUNT URL", user_credentials="NATS CREDENTIALS PATH")

    async def message_handler(msg):
        subject = msg.subject
        data = msg.data.decode()
        print(f"Received a message on '{subject}': {data}")

        # Store the message in the MySQL database
        conn = mysql.connector.connect(
            host="PUBLIC ENDPOINT",
            port="PORT",
            user="NAME",
            password="PASSWORD",
            database="nats_messages"
        )
        cursor = conn.cursor()
        cursor.execute('INSERT INTO messages (subject, data) VALUES (%s, %s)', (subject, data))
        conn.commit()
        cursor.close()
        conn.close()

    # Subscribe to a subject
    await nc.subscribe("foo", cb=message_handler)

    # Keep the subscriber running to receive messages
    while True:
        await asyncio.sleep(1)

if __name__ == '__main__':
    asyncio.run(run_subscriber())
```

> 3. Update the subscriber code with your Scaleway RDB information as well as the ones form your NATS.

Author: ```suggestion
    Do not forget to replace the subscriber code with the correct configuration details for your Scaleway Managed Database information, and `NATS ACCOUNT URL` and `NATS CREDENTIALS PATH` with your own NATS account details.
```

   You will note that they are the same as the publisher's. 

>    It's completely normal as both applications are communicating through the same NATS server.

Author: ```suggestion
   This is normal as both applications are communicating through the same NATS server.
```

## Put it all in motion

> You have now your architecture ready : 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your architecture is now ready: 
```

- A NATS server to handle the pub/sub messaging pattern
- A publisher application that will send a message through the NATS server

> - A subscriber application that will retrieve the message from the NATS server and write it on the mySQL database

Author: ```suggestion
- A subscriber application that will retrieve the message from the NATS server and write it to the mySQL database
```

- A database that can be read by the rest of your architecture's clients

> To see the flow running, you can follow the steps:

Author: ```suggestion
To see the flow running, you can follow these steps:
```

> 1. Open your terminal window dedicated to the subscriber and run the python file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Open your Terminal window dedicated to the subscriber and run the Python file
```

```
python nats_subscriber_with_mysql.py
```

> 2. Open your terminal window dedicated to the publisher and run the python file

Reviewer: Earlier in the tuto "Terminal" is capitalized, either or is fine but maybe use only one for consistency, unless you were referring to two types of terminals?

Author: I would say to leave it lowercase throughout

```
python nats_publisher.py
```
3. Go back to your terminal window of the subscriber. 
   You can see that the message has been received by the application and sent to the database.
4. Go back to your database terminal window (the one with >sql) and run the following code
```
USE nats_messages
SELECT * FROM messages;
```

> 5. You should see your message in the table with the timestamp

Author: ```suggestion
    You should see your message in the table with the timestamp
```

<insert screenshot>

### How to remove all resources used in the tutorial

> To be sure that you are not running resources without using them, you can delete your database following this documentation (https://console.scaleway.com/rdb/instances/fr-par/2f03fca4-70b0-4ccd-aee5-01032d1cc3b2/overview)

Author: ```suggestion
To be sure that you are not running resources without using them, you can delete your database by following [this documentation](/managed-databases/postgresql-and-mysql/how-to/delete-a-database/).
```

> You can also delete your NATS server using the following commande in your terminal

Author: ```suggestion
You can also delete your NATS server with the following command in your terminal:
```

```
nats-server --signal stop
```

> Messaging and Queuing NATS is a Serverless product and is only charge once you are movoing messages through the broker.

Author: ```suggestion
Messaging and Queuing NATS is a Serverless product and is only charged for when you are moving messages through the broker. This eliminates the need to worry about unexpected billing when you are not using it.
```

> So no worries for unexpected billing if you are not using it!

Author: ```suggestion
```

## Summary, going further, key takeaways
We have shown how to asynchronously decouple a producer and a mySQL database using NATS, adhering to serverless patterns.

> While the volume of data processed in this example is quite small, thanks to the Messaging and Queuing NATS streams's, your database will process message at an adapted pace.

Author: ```suggestion
While the volume of data processed in this example is quite small, thanks to the Messaging and Queuing NATS streams, your database will be able to process messages at an adapted pace.
```

You can adapt this example to manage larger workloads.

Here are some possible extensions to this basic example:
 - Use a continous flow of incoming messages
 - Use a serverless Database to embrace further the Serverless architecture

>  - The scalability of NATS pub/sub patterns enables you to manage more than one customer and publisher, let's ty this!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - The scalability of NATS pub/sub patterns enables you to manage more than one customer and publisher
```
